---
title: "Day 2!"
date: 2021-05-18
layout: post
---
#### The honeymoon phase. Senior Euler, sigh. Who could resist the wan face of a sequestered academic?
The problem asks you to sum all even Fibonacci numbers below four million. The example of the first ten numbers 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89. So the first number is 1.
Similar to the first problem we are evaluating elements in a sequence, but this sequence proceeds depending on the previous elements. The first function I wrote points to the zeroth term in the sequence i = 1 and the first term j = 1. Then I use a while loop to repeat a bracket of code until j exceeds 4 million. Repeat step 1) assign i to j and j to the sum of i and j step 2) use an if statement to test if j is even, then yield j. i and j scan through the Fib sequence two terms at a time. Finally sum the elements returned by the generator.

term(n) = i + j
i = j
j = i + j
term(n+1) = i + j
...

term(0) = 0
term(1) = 0 + 1 = 1
term(2) = 1 + 1 = 2
term(3) = 1 + 2 = 3
term(4) = 2 + 3 = 5
...

The next function uses recursion. The base cases are when the term number is zero or one. If the term is a different number the function calls itself twice fib(n-1) + fib(n-2). The problem I ran into is that the Fib number is not retained between function calls so how can I sum the even numbers? I found a solution by accident when I was experimenting with adding a global variable num_fib_calls to count the levels of recursion. I used my first function to find the maximum level before the Fib number exceeded 4 million, the 32nd term. I wrote a separate function to count the function calls using a for loop to call the recursive function 32 times. Not very efficient because it is 32 calls + 31 calls + 30 calls ... aka n(n+1)/2 aka 528 calls. Is that O(n**2)? What if instead of counting them I check if they are even? What other ways can I sum the Fiby evens?
