---
title: "Problem 7"
date:   2021-05-27 00:00:00 -0400
layout: post
---
## Given a 1000-digit number find the greatest product of any 13 consecutive numbers.
This exercise is a great way to practice using generators, list comprehension and handling files. Before I even touched my keyboard I wrote out an outline for my algorithm. Some of it was in pseudocode and other parts were more general. Mapping my solution gave me a quick look at what I know and what I did not know. I grabbed my copy of Automate the Boring stuff with Python for quick reference. Also I opened python docs in a tab in case I was fuzzy on the details of a function.

Here is my outline.
Input: n is a 1000-digit number, d is the length of consecutive numbers (default is 13)
Output: the highest product of d consecutive numbers
- Convert n to a string.
- Convert this string into a list.
- Use list comprehension to make a list of integers.
- Make a highest_sum variable.
- Grouping loop:
    - Make a slice of my_list[0:14].
    - Sum the integers in the slice
    - Test if sum is greater than highest_sum, if yes reassign highest_sum to sum. 
    - Pop the first element.
    - Break when there are no more slices.
- Return the highest_sum.

Looking back on my first draft I cringe, but hey, if you aren't cringing a little then maybe you are not improving. I copied the number from Project Euler.org into a text file and from there I needed to clean it up. I opened this text file for reading with open() and looped over the lines to get rid of any '\n' characters with strip('\n'). I might have used splitlines() instead if the text had other line boundaries like '\r'. With my striped string I used list comprehension to make a list of integers.

Then I wanted to scan through my list and pick out groups of thirteen. Generator expressions are great for this task. I iterated over the index, element enumeration of my list to select my_list[index, index+13]. I am not sure if using enumeration was the best way to pick out my groups? Then I found the greatest sum. I thought this would be a shortcut, because the higher numbers would yield a higher product. I forgot about zero, oops. Scrap the 'shortcut' and find the product. I used prod from the math module. The final step was to find the highest prod. I used list comprehension to apply prod to each group. To find the greatest product I applied max to my list of products.

This problem was fun and helped reinforce my understanding of python functions. The most interesting challenge was deciding which object types to use for which step and moving data between these types.

