---
title: "Problem 11"
date:   2021-06-06 00:00:00 -0400
layout: post
---
## It has been a while!
Don't look at me like that Monsieur Euler. Please, I cannot bear it. Yes, it has been a whole week since my last post. I attempted problem 11 last Sunday and it put me in quite a mood. I began to question my abilities. Navigating a multi-dimensional array did not come naturally to me.

The problem at hand: Find the greatest product of four consecutive numbers, in the given grid. The numbers can proceed left to right, top to bottom, or diagonally. I assumed the clever people trapped in this project Euler website, who churn out impossible tasks, would not make this easy and so the answer was probably along a diagonal.

 My first method was brute force: check all possbile combinations of four numbers that are grouped diagonally. There are two possible diagonal orientations: form a line of elements starting from the top left and descending to the bottom right and secondly from the bottom right up to the top left.

 Input: A 20x20 grid of random numbers provided by Project Euler.
 Output: The greatest product of four numbers adjacent, that proceed in a line. The line may be left to right, top to bottom, diagonal from top left to bottom right or diagonal from bottom left to top right.
 - Assume the answer is along a diagonal, and ignore all groups from left to right and top to bottom.
 - Find the multi-index for every number running along a diagonal line ie. grid[x][y] as tuple (x,y), group these together by line.
    - For diagonal top left to bottom right by partitioning the grid into two triangles:
        - Find indexes for the diagonal lines in the top half triangle starting with [(0,0), (1,1), (2,2)...], [(0,1), (1,2), (2,3),...], ...
        - Find indexes for the diagonal lines in the bottom triangle [(1,0), (2,1), (3,2),...], [(2,0), (3,1), (4,2),...],...
    - Repeat for the diagonal lines from bottom left to top right.
        - Split into top triangle and bottom triangle.
        - Find indexes for each diagonal line and group together.
- Use the groups of tuples to look groups of values in the grid. Store as lists.
- Create a variable to store the higest product.
- Scan these new lists of values for groups of 4. Find the product of these four values.
- Test the product against the current highest value. If greater then set highest value to the product.
- Repeat for all groups of values.
- Return the highest product.

It helped me to make a 20x20 grid, with the multi-index for each cell. Good luck!