---
title: "Problem 9"
date:   2021-05-29 00:00:00 -0400
layout: post
---
## Find the product of (a, b, c) for the only pythagorean triple where a + b + c = 1000
Pythagorean triples are three positive integers (a, b, c) such that a^2 + b^2 = c^2. The second restriction for this problem is a a + b + c = 1000. Make one simple polynomial by substituting c = 1000 - a - b into a^2 + b^2 = c^2 yields a^2 + b^2 = (1000 - a - b)^2. Expand the expression on the right side using recursive foiling to get a^2 + b^2 = 1000^2 - 2000a - 2000b + 2ab + a^2 + b^2. Move the terms on the left to the right to get the polynomial 0 = 1000^2 - 2000a - 2000b + 2ab.

From the second constraint is neccessary for a, b, c < 1000. Iterate over all combinations of a and b up to a = 1000 and b = 1000 and find the a, b pair that satisfy the polynomial above. I solved this with a for loop iterating over values 1 to 1000 nested in a for loop iterating over 1 to 1000. The function returned the solution for (a, b) twice and the two for loops are O(n^2). Alternatively you can import combinations from itertools, which only iterates over the range once and is O(n).

The final solution is the product of (a, b, squareroot(a^2+b^2)). My first instict was to make this problem more complex than it actually was. I went on a tangent reading about generating pythagorean triples and parent/child relationships of primitive pythagorean triples. These topics are interesting, but I could have saved some time by focusing on the definition of the triple and the constraints of the problem.