---
title: "Problem 7"
date:   2021-05-23 00:00:00 -0400
layout: post
---
## Find the 10,001th prime number.
How large would this prime number be? The Prime number theorem is a good way to estimate the value of this prime. The number of primes below the number n is approximately n / ln(n). I played around with some different n inputs and found for n = 117,000 there are about 10025 primes. Works for me!

Next, I need to make a list of those primes. The list index will keep a nice count of my primes for me. How do I test for primality? There is trial division, Pollard's rho algorithm, the Sieve of Eratosthenese, so many lovely methods. I liked Pollard's, but something was wrong with my code from problem 3. It kept spitting out pseudoprimes like 475 and even 25. I tried tweaking it for a while, but I got burned out and decided to switch gears to a new algorithm.

Miller-Rabin. Input is n, the number you are testing for primality and k, the number of repetitions of the test. The first step is to rewrite n as some integer d times 2 raised to some integer r plus 1. Find the values of r and d by factoring out powers of 2 from n - 1. Now you have enough information to find a composite witness. Pick a random number, a, from the range 2 to n-2. Test if a raised to d times 2 raised to r mod n is equal to 1 or n - 1. Repeat this test for r = 0, r = 1,...r = r-1 If yes, then n is probably prime or your random number a is a strong liar, which is why k is important. Repeat this loop k times to increase the probability that if n is composite there are fewer liars.

Miller-Rabin uses Fermat's little theorem and it has some nice qualities. For base, a, random numbers tried to test n for primality if n is composite then at most a fourth of bases a are strong liars for n. I ended up using k = 12. The probability of the test returning 'probably prime' when the n input is composite with 12 iterations is less than 5.96x10^-8. I used the OEIS.org list of primes to adjust my k. Not sure how else I would have known without using a list of exact values.

Are there Miller-Rabin pseudoprimes?