---
title: "Problem 4"
date:   2021-05-22 00:00:00 -0400
layout: post
---
## No melon, no lemon!
Our task today is to find the largest palindrome that is the product of two three-digit numbers. Let's look at the problem in parts. The upper bound for a product of two three-digit numbers is 999 * 999 = 998001. This is not a palindromic number because it is not the same number when read left to right as when read right to left. The next palindrome less than 998001 is 997799, which has only two factors 11 and 90709, itself a palindrome (cool), but not less than 10x4. This is a starting point, but when can I end my search? The smallest palindrome that is the product of two three-digit numbers is 101 * 101 = 10201.

Now that we have a simple search space, let's make our procedure.
1. For the first term, loop over all integers from 101 to 999.
2. For the second term, make a nested loop to iterate over all integers from 101 to 999.
3. Find the product of the first and second term.
4. Test if it is a palindromic number.
    1. Makie the int a list object.
    2. Copy it in reverse.
    3. Compare the original with the reversed copy.
5. Create a variable to test for the largest palindrome.
Output: return the largest palindrome.

For some reason I did not take this route. I do not know why because it does not seem computationally complex. Instead I read up on palindromes. I was looking for some property that would narrow my search space more. I learned that all palindromic numbers with an even number of digits are divisible by 11. My upper bound 997799 is six digits long therefore it has a factor of 11 and all palindromic numbers from 100001 to my upper bound also have a factor of 11. If every integer can be factored into a unique combination of primes 11 * x * y = my palindrome, where y is some three digit number at most 999 and x is at most 90 (because 91*11=1001 is a cool four digit palindrome). Another method:
1. Get a list of all palindromes from 900009 to 997799. From oeis.org.
2. Factor each palindrome in descending order using Pollard's rho.
3. Filter out palindromes with a factor > 1000.
4. Divide each palindrome by 11.
5. Filter out quotients greater than 999 * 90 = 89910
Output: return the largest palindrome.
This method resulted in more then one output. Then I had to multiply the factors of each palindrome by hand. I solved it, but I would like to attempt the first algorithm because it seems more straightforward.